Hello everyone and welcome to the tools for natural language processing lecture part 1.
Before we jump straight into the code along project I want to take a brief moment to explore a few of
the tools that SPARC has for dealing with text data understanding these tools.
We're going to be able to use them easily in our custom coatl project.
So we're going to learn a lot of these basic features that you'll find yourself using all the time.
If you end up dealing with texts they show a spark and Python.
So let's open up a new Jupiter notebook and get started.
OK here I am at a new Jupiter notebook and a quick note the actual descriptions and code that I'm going
to go through can be found underneath.
These are from machine learning folder.
Natural Language Processing the tools for an LP.
IPY and B.
So the imported Sparke session and I've created a spark session.
So let's get started the first thing we're going to do is discuss tokenizer and tokenization tokenization
is the process of taking text such as a sentence and then breaking into individual terms.
And that's usually words in the simple tokenizer class provides this functionality.
So SPARC comes with a tokenizer class and we're also going to talk about is a regular expression tokenizer.
So that allows more advanced tokenization based on a regular expression.
We don't actually cover price on regular expressions in this course but you can go ahead and check out
the resources in case that's something that interests you.
By default the parameter for the regular expression pattern is used as delimiters or spaces to actually
split the input text.
And we're going to do is show you how you can pass in your own parameters for a pattern you want to
split on.
OK.
Now let's start by actually importing everything we were just discussing.
So I'll say from Paice sparked the M-L that feature import tokenizer and rejects are regular expression
tokenizer.
And then I'm also going to import a few more things.
We'll say from Weissberg sequel that functions import call and that allows us to kind of call a column
and then UGF which stands for user defined function.
So we'll also show you how you can create your own functions using lambda expressions and then we'll
save from Paice sparkplugs sequel types.
Import the integer type.
OK so next I want to create a data frame full of sentences so I will say send the death sentence state
of frame is equal to spark create a frame.
And this allows me to pass in a list of tuples where the actual entries are essentially the rows.
So I'll say something like Hi.
I heard about spark and you can just copy and paste this from the note book itself.
You don't want to type all this stuff and then create two more sentences.
This is all from the documentation.
I will say I wish Java could use case classes.
And then last one is going to be a little different.
We're going to say logistic comma regression comma models comma our needs.
Notice the actual commas there.
These other ones are split on the actual whitespace.
This has commas and then finally for the second argument inside this spark create data frame.
We're going to do is pasan a list of the column names.
So the first column name is the ID.
The second column name is the sentence.
So I'm going to run that and then it may take a little bit of time.
If it's your very first time running any data frame but will say send the F that show.
And there we have our simple data frame.
So it's an ID column with a sentence column and you can see that I thought if it was too much to actually
show and what's important to notice here is that our first two entries are split on whitespace as per
the sentence.
Our second or third entry index number two actually has commas in between the words.
Now we're going to do is create the actual tokenizer objects and this is really this should feel familiar
to you.
Given that we've used features before.
All you do is create a feature variable.
In this case we'll say tokenizer and then create an instance of that tokenizer class and you can say
what input column you expect.
In this case I expect sentence.
I don't know have the output column be called words so let's run that and then I'm also going to do
a regular expression tokenizer so will say regex tokenizer
give that a little split there so my regex tokenizer is going to be an instance of that Regex tokenizer
and then same thing.
Input column is that sentence column.
The output column is that words column Salt's given equal sign there.
Run this.
OK now.
Well we're also going to add to the regular expression tokenizer is a third parameter.
So what I want to do is click shift type here to show it to you.
So we have this pattern parameter.
And what this does is it extracts the tokens based off whatever pattern you provide.
So regular expressions in general are kind of a deeper dive topic.
That's outside the scope of this course that would allow you to do is define what you want to split
on.
So if you don't want to split on whitespace you can split a hash tags commas etc..
So we're going to do is specify the pattern and will specify the pattern as in regular expression terms
backglass backslash capital W.
So let's run that and then we're going to create a user defined function called Count tokens and this
user defined function is going to be a tough call and will pass and lambda expression so takes in words
and then it's going to return the length of the words.
And we also have to specify as a second argument here and use the Find function what the type is.
So I will specify that it's an integer type so it doesn't make those lengths of words into strings.
So there's my count tokens.
My use of the find function.
So let's actually play off this now.
Or create a data frame called tokenized which is equal to tokenizer and then I'm going to transform
my data in this case.
That was a sentence state of frame or send underscored the F so I will run that and I'll take a look
at tokenized and show the results here and I can see what happened.
I have my ID column my sentence column and then my words column is now a list of the tokens.
Now something to note here is how many words are actually in each list.
So what's a little unclear given this output is if for the entries themselves is how many words are
in the third list.
Because remember this third list had commas already in it so I don't know if this is just one long string
including the commas or if it's actually all the words separated.
So what we can do is use our count tokens to count how many items are actually in this list.
So from tokenized you're going to do is say with column ongoings create a new column called tokens and
then I'm going to call my use the Find function called Count tokens and call it on this words column
so I can say well words.
And then finally at the end of all this I'm just going to show this.
So showing that now I can see the actual tokens.
So there were five tokens in the first sentence seven tokens in the second sentence.
But notice what happens at the third sentence.
It treats it all as one giant string because it was expecting to split on actual white space.
This is for the tokenizer.
So if you come back up here to our original sentences it's treating this whole thing as one giant string
because there was no white spaces split on.
So coming back down here let's use the regex tokenizer to actually try to get out the tokens so will
specify that we're going to split on not just whitespace.
So we'll say a regex tokenizer here.
And let's actually call transform on this and then say sent sentence to F and then we'll say say r.g
tokenized is equal to reach X tokenizer that transform into Cramm that R.G. tokenized books are not
T.G. R.G. tokenized.
And then let's let's apply this exact same thing to it.
So I'll say with column and then count columns and then show.
So copy and paste this over here and let's run it.
And now I can see the token count is correct is actually treating each of these based off they're split
on commas.
Not just whitespace.
You can actually see an indication of this.
The fact that there's a whitespace between logistic Khama regression versus here there was no whitespace.
And obviously the tokened count makes that pretty clear.
All right.
So if you're interested in learning more about regular expressions check out the resource links provided.
The next thing you want to cover is stop words removal so a stop word is a word that should be excluded
from the input because typically these words appear frequently and don't really care that much meaning.
So these are words like.
Or the etc..
So just common words that you see all the time and we can use a stop words remover to actually do that.
So luckily Stoppard's remover actually has lots of language options available.
So if you're working with data that's not in English maybe it's in Danish Dutch French German Norwegian
Spanish etc. Sparke actually has a lot of these things available for you.
So you have to check the documentation to make sure your language is supported.
So keep that in mind.
Right now we're dealing with English which is definitely supported.
We'll say from Paice park M-L feature import.
And we're going to do import stop Ora's remover.
Now let's create in other data frame we'll call this one sentence data frame and I'm going to say equal
to spark create data frame and again like I mentioned you could just copy and paste this from the notes
but it's going to be two sentences and we'll say we'll actually make these tokenized already.
So I'll say I saw
I don't know green horse.
So some of these words are really common like I and the sum of these words green and horse are not so
common and I'll create another entry.
One more entry.
This will be another tokenize sentence will say Mary had
little and then lamb OK.
And then finally as a second argument let's get these columns titles we'll say Id.
And then we can say tokens so we'll run that make sure everything's balanced.
Perfect.
So if I take a look at my sentence data frame and show the results notice here how my column.
And then my tokens so we can do is create an object called remover and say Stoppard's remover.
So we import it and specify the input and output columns the input column is called tokens and the output
column is called say filtered.
So there's a remover object.
Now we're going to grab that remover object and transform our sentence data frame and then we're going
to show it.
So I'm not saying it's anything I'm just going to show it off.
And now we can see the filter results.
So notice that saw a green horse and a merry little lamb are different than the original tokens so what
it did is it just filtered out the common words based off a dictionary that it has inside of this object
and you can do shift tab here and see other things so you can ask OK is it going to be case sensitive.
What are the stop words so you can add additional stop words.
If that is something that you know for your particular domain is needed maybe certain legal terms are
really common so you want to add those to the stoppered count.
So that's the basic idea.
This is a really common effect for natural language processing and hopefully you can begin to see the
steps.
So a lot of this natural language processing is kind of building a pipeline of step after step after
step.
So you would take the raw sentence split it into tokens take those tokens remove the Stoppard's etc..
Now the final feature I want to go over for part one is called engrams and an engram and just spell
it out so you know what I'm saying.
And Graham that is a sequence of tokens typically words for some integer.
So it's a sequence of end tokens for some integer N and the anagram class can be used to transform input
features into engrams.
So what engram does is it takes an input sequence of strings.
So basically the output of a tokenizer and then the parameter end is used to determine the number of
terms in each anagram and the output will consist of a sequence of these engrams where each engram is
represented by space delimited string that is the space is actually what's the limiting that actual
string of n and consecutive words.
So if the input sequence contains fewer than in strings then output is produced.
Let me show you what all of that means.
I'll say from Paice Burke.
But M-L that feature import the anagram and then what I wanted to do is just copy and paste from the
notes here.
The actual data frame because you don't want to see me type through all this.
So we have our word data frame just like we did before.
Create a spark data frame and we have an ID column and then award's column.
So clearly this is the tokenization of the words column we used before.
So I have this word data frame and now I'm going to create an anagram and going to be an instance of
the engram class and always specify the end is equal to two in my input column is the words column and
then I'm going to say my output column is Gram's So around that.
Now what I want to do is take Engram and transform my actual data which is the word data frame and then
we're going to show off the results.
So let's show that off and we can see here that I have the ID column the words and then Grims the engrams
are representing strings of consecutive words.
So they give you a clear picture of that.
I'm just going to select the grams column for this and then show the results here and let me say I don't
want this to be truncated with three dots.
So before I say you or inside of show I'll call it truncates equal to false analysis from that and I
can see the truncated data.
So the full data itself and again all engrams are doing is they're showing you kind of these pairs of
consecutive words because I labeled and as equal to to each of these grams is going to be two tokens
where we show the consecutive words themselves so high.
I I heard her I heard heard about her about about spark and this kind of is useful when you want the
relationships between two words which words always appear next to each other and the engram kind of
helps show that off.
Now if you start going to large of an engram.
So let's say three then it's going to take longer and longer because you're going to have more and more
data in your tokens so keep that in mind.
Now we won't actually be using anagrams too often but later on if more advanced natural language processing
technique techniques you may find the need for them so keep that in mind that spark does have them available.
So there are two engrams and those are the results of just two.
OK.
If you have any questions feel free to post the Q&A forums.
Coming up next we're going to do is discuss part two of the tools for an LP with T.F. idea.
That's that term frequency inversed document frequency as well as count of vectorize or thanks.
I'll see you at the next lecture.